IF I CAN'T PASS ANYTHING?
I CAN'T DO ANYTHING.
Announcer: WE ALL WANT
OUR CHILDREN TO DO WELL.
BUT WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THEY
JUST CAN'T SEEM TO LEARN?
Man: IT'S VERY DIFFICULT
FOR YOU TO WATCH YOUR CHILD
NOT WANT TO DO SOMETHING
THAT YOU HAVE TO
MAKE THEM DO EVERY DAY.
AND THAT'S WHAT SCHOOL
WAS BECOMING, IT WAS A BATTLE.
Announcer: TODAY,
A LAST-CHANCE SCHOOL
FOR KIDS WITH
LEARNING PROBLEMS.
IS THIS PROPER?
AND NEW FINDINGS ABOUT HOW
YOU CAN HELP YOUR OWN CHILD.
LAST YEAR'S TEACHER
WAS TO GET ON HER BACK,
THIS YEAR'S TEACHER
SAID "LEAVE HER ALONE."
OBVIOUSLY YOU ARE
UNDER A LOT OF PRESSURE.
Announcer:
BRAZELTON ON PARENTING.
( theme music playing )
THERE'S NOTHING THAT
SO CONCERNS PARENTS
AS MUCH AS HOW THEIR CHILD'S
BRAIN IS DEVELOPING.
WE ALL WANT OUR KIDS
TO BE SMART,
AND TO DO WELL IN SCHOOL.
AND WE ALL WANT
TO BE THERE FOR THEM
IF WE FIND OUT
THEY NEED HELP.
Brazelton: HELP IS WHAT
THIS STORY IS ALL ABOUT.
HELP, AND HOPE.
IT'S ABOUT A GROUP OF KIDS
WHO'VE COME HERE FROM SCHOOLS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
KIDS FROM SUBURBS,
AND THE INNER CITY,
ALL DIFFERENT, BUT WITH
THE SAME UNHAPPY TALE.
Boy: IN MY SCHOOL,
IF I FINISH MY HOMEWORK
AND I DON'T KNOW
HOW TO SPELL--
SPELL SOMETHING,
THEY WILL YELL AT ME.
- Brazelton: REALLY?
- YEAH, BIG TIME.
Brazelton:
THEY'VE HAD A LOT OF
HEARTACHE IN THEIR YOUNG LIVES.
Boy:
I JUST THOUGHT
I WAS A DUMB KID
BECAUSE ALL THE OTHER PEOPLE
KNEW HOW READ, WRITE,
AND I WASN'T IN THEIR GRADE
SO I THOUGHT I'D NEVER PASS.
WHO REMEMBERS WHAT
PARAPHRASING IS?
Brazelton: BUT THESE KIDS
AREN'T DUMB,
NOT AT ALL.
...THE QUESTION,
AND YOU MAKE IT...
Veronica Kenney:
KIDS COME TO LANDMARK
BECAUSE THEY HAVE LANGUAGE-BASED
LEARNING DISABILITIES.
THIS MEANS THAT THEY HAVE
DIFFICULTY WITH READING,
WITH EXPRESSING THEMSELVES
ORALLY AND IN WRITING.
ALL ASPECTS OF THE LANGUAGE AREA
ARE COMPROMISED.
HOWEVER, THEY ARE BRIGHT.
Brazelton:
LEARNING DISABILITIES
AREN'T JUST THE CHILD'S ISSUE.
Lori Pugsley:
WE KNEW IN FIRST GRADE
REBECCA WAS DYSLEXIC.
THE DYSLEXIA DOESN'T END
WHEN SCHOOL ENDS,
IT DOESN'T END
AT THREE O'CLOCK,
DURING THE SUMMER.
IT'S EVERY DAY,
AROUND THE CLOCK THAT THEY
LIVE AND BREATHE IT.
AND THEREFORE THE FAMILY
LIVES AND BREATHES IT.
Brazelton:
THE CONSTANT STRESS
CAN CHANGE A CHILD.
Lori:
WHAT WE SAW WITH REBECCA
WAS THAT, UM...
SHE STOPPED TAKING RISKS,
SHE STOPPED BEING OUTSPOKEN,
SHE KIND OF
BECAME MORE QUIET.
SO, UH, REBECCA, WHAT DID YOU
COME UP WITH FIRST?
Lori: WE COULD SEE THIS
DOWNWARD SPIRAL HAPPENING,
AND IF WE DIDN'T STOP
THIS DOWNWARD MOTION,
WE WOULD NEVER
GET HER TO THE POINT
WHERE SHE COULD BE
FUNCTIONING AND INDEPENDENT
AND YOU KNOW,
SUCCESSFUL IN LIFE.
( chattering )
Bob Broudo:
TYPICALLY, THE FAMILIES
WHO ARE BRINGING
THEIR CHILDREN TO LANDMARK,
ARE FAMILIES WHO COLLECTIVELY
HAVE EXPERIENCED FAILURE.
THEY'VE SEEN THEIR CHILDREN
BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN SCHOOL,
HAVE DIFFICULTY MAKING FRIENDS
SOMETIMES BECAUSE OF THAT,
AND THEY'VE SEEN THE WONDERFUL
SPIRIT IN THEIR CHILD
BEGIN TO FADE AWAY
AS THEY LOSE CONFIDENCE
IN THEMSELVES TO LEARN.
Brazelton:
IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE
HOW HOPELESS
THESE KIDS HAVE FELT.
JUST LISTEN.
I WAS ALWAYS FRUSTRATED
AND I ALWAYS BEHIND,
AND I WAS ALWAYS LIKE
CATCHING UP,
AND WHEN IT WAS TIME
TO TAKE TESTS,
I WAS ALWAYS A WRECK AND I
COULDN'T GET UP  THE GRADES
THAT MY CLASSMATES WERE UP TO,
AND THAT MADE ME
FEEL, LIKE, TERRIBLE.
Chris:
I DIDN'T HAVE A GREAT
EXPERIENCE IN MY OLD SCHOOL.
IT MADE ME FEEL BAD
THAT ALL THE OTHER KIDS
WEREN'T HAVING AS MUCH TROUBLE
WITH THIS AS I WAS,
AND I THOUGHT THERE WAS
SOMETHING REALLY WRONG WITH ME.
Tom:
I WENT TO A SCHOOL
WHERE IT WAS LIKE REALLY TOUGH.
I STARTED OFF BEHIND
AND I ENDED UP BEHIND.
EVERY YEAR I THOUGHT
I WAS GETTING A LITTLE BIT
BETTER AND BETTER BUT I WAS
ACTUALLY GETTING WORSE.
I THOUGHT I WAS STUPID AND...
I JUST DIDN'T FEEL
CONFIDENT WITH MYSELF.
Brazelton:
ALTHOUGH MANY KIDS
HAVE THESE KINDS
OF LEARNING PROBLEMS,
FEW SCHOOL SYSTEMS
ARE REALLY ABLE TO HELP.
Broudo:
BECAUSE THE STUDENTS
WHO COME TO US ARE WOUNDED
FROM THEIR EXPERIENCE
IN THE LEARNING PROCESS,
ONE OF OUR MAJOR TASKS
IS TO BUILD SUCCESS.
WE DON'T CARE
WHERE SUCCESS BEGINS,
SO WE INVOLVE THE STUDENTS
IN A WIDE RANGE OF ACTIVITIES.
ACADEMICS, SOCIAL,
EXTRA-CURRICULAR, ATHLETIC,
AND ALL OF THE PEOPLE
TEACHING EVERYTHING
ARE THE TEACHERS.
THEY GET TO KNOW
THE STUDENTS WELL.
AND THEY FIND OUT
WHAT MOTIVATES THE KIDS,
AND THEN THEY DEAL
WITH SUCCESS.
THE FIRST SUCCESS
MAY NOT BE IN THE CLASSROOM.
IT COULD BE BECAUSE THEY
JOINED ONE OF THE ACTIVITIES,
AND THEY FEEL GOOD
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
IN SOME OF THE SCHOOLS
YOU CAN'T DO THOSE THINGS
BECAUSE YOUR GRADES ARE SO LOW
YOU CAN'T PARTICIPATE
IN EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES.
SO THEY COME HERE AND WE FIND
SOME WAY TO BUILD THEM UP.
THIS STRATEGY WORKS.
AS SOON AS THEY BEGIN
TO TRUST AN ADULT
WHO IS COACHING OR IS WORKING
WITH THEM IN ANY OTHER WAY,
THEY ALSO RELAX A LITTLE BIT
MORE IN THE CLASSROOM.
CAN YOU FIND "SHUTS"?
Brazelton:
THAT'S WHEN THE REAL
LEARNING CAN BEGIN.
THOUGH CONFIDENT
IN OTHER AREAS,
MOST KIDS WITH THESE DEFICITS
CAN'T BREAK DOWN WORDS
INTO THEIR SOUNDS
OR PHONEMES.
ALL RIGHT.
IT'S THE WAY
THEIR BRAINS ARE WIRED.
THIS MAKES LEARNING
TO READ AND WRITE
INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT.
"INBAUTIOUS,"
"INCAUTIOUS."
THE TEACHERS AT LANDMARK
DON'T LOCK THEMSELVES
INTO ONE APPROACH.
EVEN KIDS
WITH SIMILAR PROBLEMS
RESPOND TO
DIFFERENT STRATEGIES.
...AND CHANGE IT
TO A TONGUE SCRAPER.
YES.  WHICH TONGUE SCRAPER
DO YOU HAVE IN MIND?
BEFORE,
I COULDN'T READ AT ALL.
WITH MY TUTORIAL TEACHER,
MISS HERBERT,
SHE KNOWS ALL THE RIGHT STEPS
TO MAKE SOMEBODY
A BETTER READER.
OHH, "SHUTS."
Brazelton:
THE RESULTS CAN BE
NOTHING SHORT OF A MIRACLE.
ALL RIGHT, JOHN,
YOU WANNA READ
THE REST OF THE TOP PART?
- Brazelton:
JOHN IS AN EXAMPLE.
- "A THESIS STATEMENT..."
Woman:
THEY ASKED ME, "WHY DO
YOU WANT JOHN TO COME HERE?"
I TOLD THEM, "I WANT JOHN
TO HAVE THE LOOK IN HIS EYE
THAT THESE CHILDREN HAVE."
Gene Hilliard:
IT WAS ABOUT 17 MONTHS AGO
WE CAME TO
A MUTUAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE SPECIAL ED
TEACHER THERE
THAT REALLY,
IT WAS HOPELESS.
THE THESIS STATEMENT WOULD BE
"APPLES COME IN MANY VARIETIES."
Pat Hilliard: I SAID,
"JOHN, IT'S OVER, HONEY.
IT'S OVER.  WE'RE GONNA
FIND YOU A PLACE."
HE SAID, "HELP ME."
SO HE DROPPED OUT OF SCHOOL,
AND WE WENT ON A SEARCH.
AND NOW HERE WE ARE,
15, 16 MONTHS LATER.
HE'S HAD FABULOUS
ACADEMIC SUCCESS,
AND HE'S PRESIDENT
OF THE STUDENT COUNCIL.
John: I GOT THE ATTENTION
I NEEDED, THE AMOUNT
OF HELP I NEEDED.
I HAND THE STUFF IN
AND FEEL SUCCESS,
FEELING GOOD ABOUT MYSELF.
"HIGH SCHOOL IS A VERY FUN TIME
IN A PERSON'S LIFE."
NOW I'M HAVING A BLAST
EVERY DAY.
Brazelton: THERE ARE
SO MANY STORIES LIKE JOHN'S.
Ian:
THINGS WEREN'T WORKING
OUT, SO I CAME OUT HERE.
GOT INVOLVED WITH SPORTS,
LACROSSE.
AND EVERYTHING SEEMS
TO BE GOING GREAT.
THE TEACHERS HERE ARE AMAZING,
THEY TRY THEIR HARDEST
TO HELP US.
THEY'LL HELP US DURING
THEIR BREAKS, THEIR LUNCHES,
AFTER SCHOOL.
THEY COULD BE GOING HOME,
INSTEAD THEY STAY HERE
AND HELP US,
AND THAT'S JUST AMAZING.
I LOVE IT.
IT'S A VERY MOTIVATING
POPULATION TO WORK WITH,
BECAUSE THEY'RE SO BRIGHT.
ONCE THEY BEGIN TO UNDERSTAND
HOW TO CRACK
THE CODE OF LANGUAGE,
THEY GET EXCITED AND THE
TEACHERS GET EXCITED WITH THEM.
THEY KNOW THEY'RE CHANGING
THE LIVES OF THESE KIDS.
( kids singing )
Noelle:
I'VE ALWAYS SANG
SINCE I WAS YOUNGER.
I'VE LOVED IT.
AS MUCH AS I TRIED,
AS HARD AS I COULD,
I COULD NOT LEARN
TO READ MUSIC.
THEN WHEN I CAME HERE,
I WAS SORT OF PUSHED GOING,
"COME ON, JUST DO IT."
THEN WHEN I STARTED
TRYING OUT FOR STUFF
I WAS SURPRISED
WHEN I GOT IT.
AND SO I'M MORE INVOLVED
THAN I'VE EVER BEEN.
I KNOW I'M SMART NOW BECAUSE
I CAN READ, WRITE AND DO MATH.
IT FEELS MUCH BETTER NOW
BECAUSE LAST TIME
I DIDN'T KNOW
HOW TO DO TIMES...
...PLUS ALGEBRA A LITTLE.
Laura:
SINCE I'VE COME HERE
I HAVE LIKE-- I'LL DO SOMETHING
BUT I'LL SUCCEED IN IT.
THEN I WANT TO DO A LITTLE
BIT MORE AND SUCCEED MORE.
COLLEGE, THAT'S WHERE
I'M GOING. NEXT STEP.
I'M MORE WILLING
TO TRY THINGS NOW.
AND I'M NOT REALLY AFRAID
TO DO ANYTHING.
( kids shouting )
Ann Paton:
IT'S JUST AMAZING TO SEE
THIS PERSON THAT
WE CARE ABOUT SO MUCH
HAVING... CHANGED THIS WAY.
UH...
UM...
I REALLY HAVE THE FEELING
THAT HER FUTURE
WILL BE BRIGHT
BECAUSE OF BEING HERE.
( kids harmonizing )
Brazelton:
VISIT US ON-LINE AT...
ON PARENTING
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
WITH ME IS DR. ROBERT BROOKS,
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST
ON THE FACULTY OF THE
HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL.
I KNOW YOUR WONDERFUL WORK ON
ADHD AND LEARNING DISABILITIES
AND I WONDER IF
YOU COULD TELL ME
WHAT'S THE LATEST
THINKING ABOUT THIS?
WELL, ONE OF THE
THINGS WE KNOW, BERRY,
IS THAT IT'S CERTAINLY
A NEURO-BIOLOGICAL DISORDER
AND WHAT THAT MEANS IS IT'S
NOT CAUSED BY BAD PARENTING
BUT IT'S REALLY
SOMETHING IN THE BRAIN.
I GOT VERY INTERESTED
IN WHAT HAPPENS
TO THE SELF-ESTEEM OF CHILDREN
WITH LEARNING PROBLEMS.
A SENSE
OF HOPELESSNESS ARISES.
AS A MATTER OF FACT,
MY MAIN INTEREST HAS BEEN
WHEN YOU HAVE A CHILD
WITH LEARNING
AND ATTENTIONAL PROBLEMS
WHAT CAN YOU DO TO KEEP
THEIR SELF-ESTEEM UP,
WHAT CAN YOU DO
SO THAT THEY HAVE
A SENSE OF HOPE
IN THE FUTURE.
SO I USE A METAPHOR
IN ALL OF MY TALKS,
EVERY CHILD HAS
ISLANDS OF COMPETENCE
OR AREAS OF STRENGTH.
YOU KNOW, I THINK PARENTS
WHO MIGHT BE
TRYING TO DO THIS,
TO TRY TO TURN IT
AROUND INTO SOMETHING,
NEED TO UNDERSTAND THE
NEURO-BIOLOGICAL SIDE OF IT.
CAN YOU LAY THAT OUT FOR ME?
WELL, WE KNOW THAT WE ALL
HAVE DIFFERENT BRAINS,
WE ALL LEARN DIFFERENTLY
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
LEARNING MORE AND MORE ABOUT
IS HOW THESE DIFFERENCES
IN THE BRAIN
IMPACT ON A CHILD'S BEHAVIOR.
SO WE KNOW THAT
CHILDREN WITH ADHD
HAVE MORE DIFFICULTY
SAY IN TERMS
OF THEIR IMPULSIVITY.
THEY ACT
BEFORE THEY THINK,
THEY'RE OFTEN
VERY HYPERACTIVE,
THEY ARE VERY IMPULSIVE.
THIS IS NOT, AS WE USED
TO THINK, BAD PARENTING,
BUT IT HAS TO DO WITH
CHANGES IN THE BRAIN.
THE SAME WITH
LEARNING DISABILITIES.
WE PROCESS
INFORMATION DIFFERENTLY
BECAUSE OF HOW
THE BRAIN WORKS.
WE KNOW THAT THERE'S
RESEARCH WHEN CHILDREN,
GOOD READERS AND POOR READERS,
ARE GIVEN MRI'S,
AND ASKED TO READ,
YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE
BLOOD FLOWING TO
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE BRAIN.
WHAT ELSE GOES WITH ADHD?
PROBABLY THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING
THAT RESEARCH
IS SHOWING WITH ADHD
IS THE IMPULSIVITY.
WHAT IT IS, IS THAT
THEY ARE SO IMPULSIVE
THAT THEY JUST ACT,
THEY DON'T STOP
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT
THEY'VE LEARNED.
THESE ARE THE CHILDREN
WHO CAN DRIVE PARENTS CRAZY
AND TEACHERS CRAZY.
THE TEACHER WILL SAY
TO THE CHILD,
I JUST SAID
"DON'T BLURT OUT AN ANSWER"
AND THEY BLURT OUT AN ANSWER.
I THINK THERE ARE WAYS
OF STARTING TO HELP
THESE CHILDREN.
- GREAT.
- WHAT I LIKE TO DO
IS ACTUALLY SIT DOWN
WITH THE CHILD,
AND IT'S SOMETHING
YOU SAID BEFORE, I LIKE TO
IN ONE SENSE, DEMYSTIFY.
SAY, "YOU HAVE MANY STRENGTHS,
OR STRONG POINTS.
YOU'RE A WONDERFUL ARTIST,
YOU DO THIS VERY NICELY,
BUT YOU KNOW ONE OF
THE PROBLEMS YOU HAVE?
SOMETIMES YOU'LL
BLURT OUT AN ANSWER,
SO TOGETHER WE HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT MAY HELP."
THERE WAS A BOY I WORKED WITH
WHO WAS SIX YEARS OLD WITH ADHD.
HE WAS HITTING OTHER KIDS.
HE SAID TO ME,
I COULDN'T BELIEVE IT,
A SIX YEAR OLD,
"DOCTOR BROOKS,
I NEED REMINDERS."
SO WE SAT DOWN, WE THEN
SAT DOWN WITH THE TEACHER,
AND THE TEACHER
WAS WONDERFUL, SHE SAID,
"HOW OFTEN DO YOU
NEED REMINDERS?"
HE SAYS,
"LIKE TWICE AN HOUR."
SHOWS YOU THE MIND OF A CHILD.
AFTER THE FIRST DAY
HE CAME HOME,
HE SAID TO HIS MOTHER,
I THINK I NEED REMINDERS
EVERY TEN MINUTES RIGHT NOW.
SEE, HE KNEW HE COULD NOT
REMEMBER NOT TO HIT.
YOU'RE JUST DRAWING
THESE KIDS BACK
INTO A SENSE OF
"I'M PART OF HUMANITY"
FROM WAY OUT THERE WHERE
WE PUT THEM WITH THESE LABELS.
PUT UNDERSTANDING
UNDERNEATH IT,
AND THEN SOME IDEAS
THAT YOU'VE GIVEN US TODAY
WOULD MAKE IT
SO MUCH EASIER TO DO THAT.
THANK YOU.
ALWAYS WONDERFUL.
THE PLEASURE'S MINE.
JOINING ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CRYSTAL, HOW CAN
PARENTS LEARN
ABOUT WHAT THEY NEED TO DO
TO FOSTER THEIR CHILD'S
BOTH EMOTIONAL
AND COGNITIVE LEARNING?
THERE ARE GOOD SITES
ON THE INTERNET TO HELP PARENTS
REALLY UNDERSTAND WHAT THEIR
CHILDREN ARE GOING THROUGH
FROM VERY EARLY STAGES
OF THEIR LIFE.
WE'RE GOING TO GO
TO THE SITE SPONSORED BY
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR
INFANTS, TODDLERS AND FAMILIES.
IT'S CALLED "ZERO TO THREE,"
AND HERE THEY HAVE INFORMATION
FOR BOTH PARENTS
AND PROFESSIONALS.
IF WE CLICK ON
THE INFORMATION FOR PARENTS,
IT REALLY TALKS ABOUT HOW
PARENTS ARE THE REAL EXPERTS
BUT THEY ALSO
PROVIDE INFORMATION
WHERE YOU CAN DO A SEARCH
TO GET INFORMATION
ON ANY TOPIC
YOU'RE INTERESTED IN.
SO LET'S SEE WHAT WE CAN
FIND OUT ABOUT LEARNING.
AS A RESULT
OF OUR SEARCH,
WE FIND THAT THERE
ARE SEVERAL ARTICLES
ON THE COGNITIVE
AND EMOTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OF CHILDREN, VERY EARLY ON.
THERE'S ALSO ANOTHER WEBSITE
PARENTS CAN GO TO
SPONSORED BY
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR THE EDUCATION
OF YOUNG CHILDREN.
AND HERE PARENTS FIND
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ON THE DEVELOPMENTAL STAGES
OF THEIR CHILD.
YOU KNOW, I LOVE YOUR MENTIONING
THESE TWO ORGANIZATIONS
BECAUSE THEY TALK ABOUT
EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
A CHILD WHO FEELS
GOOD ABOUT HIMSELF
CAN LEARN ANYTHING
YOU WANT HIM TO LEARN
BY THE TIME HE'S THREE,
AND WE'VE TESTED THIS
WITH "REACH OUT AND READ,"
WHICH MEANS YOU START
READING TO A BABY
RIGHT FROM THE FIRST.
AND OF COURSE, WHEN A PARENT
OF A BABY READS TO THEM
THEY LOOK IN THEIR FACE
AND THEY TRY TO ELICIT A SMILE.
WHEN THE BABY SMILES,
THEY SMILE BACK.
SO THEY ARE REALLY
DOING MORE THAN READING.
THEY'RE LOVING AND
READING AT THE SAME TIME.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO
PARENTS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE...
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR, WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY
IS SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Emcee:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
HI.  UM, MY SON
IS EIGHT YEARS OLD.
HE HAS THIS BIG DISLIKE
OF DOING HOMEWORK.
AND I'M TRYING TO
MOTIVATE HIM TO DO HOMEWORK.
( Brazelton laughs )
Woman: I DON'T WANT TO
BRIBE HIM BUT, UM...
I NEED TO GET HIM TO
WANT TO DO HIS HOMEWORK.
TO BE ENTHUSIASTIC
ABOUT SCHOOL WORK.
TO WANT TO DO GOOD AND
WANT TO BE A GOOD STUDENT.
UH-HUH.  HAVE YOU
EVER SEEN AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD
WHO DID HOMEWORK BECAUSE
EVERYBODY WANTS HIM TO?
I DON'T KNOW.
THIS IS THE FIRST
EIGHT YEAR OLD
I'VE EVER HAD, SO...
I DON'T KNOW ANYTHING
ABOUT EIGHT YEAR OLDS.
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT INNER
MOTIVATION, AREN'T YOU?
I THINK THAT'S GOT
TO COME FROM HIM.
AND I DOUBT THAT IT'S
GOING TO COME FROM YOU.
I THINK THE MORE PRESSURE
YOU PUT ON HIM,
PROBABLY THE LESS INNER
MOTIVATION HE'S GOING TO HAVE.
SO, I WOULD LOOK
FOR OTHER WAYS.
DOES HE HAVE A PARTICULAR
INTEREST OF ANY KIND
THAT YOU COULD FOSTER AND...
GIVE HIM, YOU KNOW, A FEELING
OF WOW, THIS IS EXCITING?
- HE LIKES TO DRAW.
- YEAH, GREAT.
AND PAINT, CRAFTY THINGS.
DO YOU SEE WHAT I'M AFTER?
TRYING TO BUILD HIM UP
AS, YOU KNOW,
- FEELING GOOD ABOUT HIMSELF.
- MM-HMM.
MAYBE HAVE SOME STRUCTURE
THAT HE CAN FALL BACK ON
THAT YOU CAN WATCH T.V.
ONE HOUR ONLY,
AND THE REST OF THE TIME
YOU SAVE FOR HOMEWORK.
I TRY TO SET UP TIME
FOR HIM TO DO IT.
AND I TRY TO SET UP A LITTLE
PLACE FOR HIM TO DO IT.
RIGHT.
AND HE'S FIDDLING
WITH HIS PENCIL
AND DOING ANYTHING
BUT DOING HIS HOMEWORK.
HAVE YOU EVER WRITTEN
OR DONE ANY CRAFTY WORK?
- HAVE YOU?
- OH, YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO DO
BEFORE YOU CAN SIT DOWN
AND GET IT DONE?
UH...
I HAVE TO GO
WATER THE PLANTS,
I HAVE TO
FEED THE FISH,
CHANGE PENCILS,
I HAVE TO DO ABOUT
TEN DIFFERENT THINGS
TO GET MOTIVATED TO DO IT.
OKAY.
AND MAYBE THIS IS
WHAT HE'S GOT TO DO
- FIND HIS OWN PATTERN.
- OKAY.
GOOD.
( applause )
HI.
HI, MY NAME'S SANDY.
I HAVE A
FIVE-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER,
AND SHE JUST
STARTED KINDERGARTEN,
AND WE'RE QUESTIONING
POSSIBLE A.D.D.
SHE HAS DIFFICULTY
GETTING WORK DONE AT SCHOOL,
SHE'S VERY DISTRACTIBLE.
DOES SHE GO FROM
ONE THING TO ANOTHER?
- Sandy: YEAH.
- IS SHE VERY HYPER-SENSITIVE?
- A LITTLE BIT, I WOULD SAY.
- LET ME SUGGEST SOMETHING.
( clapping )
I DON'T SEE ANY OF YOU
STILL BLINKING,
BECAUSE YOU HAVEN'T GOT A.D.D.
IF YOU DID YOU'D
STILL BE BLINKING,
AND YOU CAN OFTEN
TELL A CHILD
THAT'S VERY SENSITIVE--
SHE'LL KEEP ON BLINKING
AND SHE CAN'T STOP HERSELF
AND THESE KIDS HAVE A VERY
SENSITIVE NERVOUS SYSTEM
THAT REALLY DOESN'T HABITUATE
TO UNNECESSARY NOISE
OR WHATEVER.
AND SO THEY ARE
SORT OF AT THE MERCY
OF EVERYTHING THAT
GOES ON AROUND THEM.
AND OFTEN VISUALLY AND
AUDITORILY AND TACTILELY.
AND ONE THING I'VE TRIED
AND YOU MIGHT TRY THIS,
IS I GET MOTHERS
TO DRAW ME A CURVE
OF WHAT THEY'RE LIKE WHEN
THEY'RE PAYING ATTENTION,
WHAT THEY'RE LIKE
JUST BEFORE THEY CRASH,
THEN WHAT THEY'RE LIKE
AS THEY CRASH,
AND THEN WHAT THEY'RE LIKE
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
AND WHAT YOU MAY FIND
IS THAT AFTER SHE CRASHES
SHE'S GREAT
FOR A LITTLE WHILE,
AND THEN SHE HAS TO
BUILD UP AGAIN.
AND THEN IF YOU
CAN SEE THAT,
MAYBE ON THAT SLOPE UP
YOU CAN FIND SOMETHING
THAT YOU CAN FIRST
HELP HER BREAK.
AND SAY TO HER, "YOU KNOW WHEN
YOU BEGIN TO GET LIKE THAT,
SUCK YOUR THUMB
OR TWIRL YOUR HAIR,
OR GET SOMETHING
AND HANG ON TO IT,
AND LET'S
CUT OFF THE PEAK.
AND THEN IF SHE CAN LEARN
TO CUT OFF THE PEAK HERSELF,
SHE CAN DO THIS IN SCHOOL,
RATHER THAN THIS.
AND IF THAT HELPS,
IT MAY REALLY GIVE HER BACK
HER SELF-ESTEEM,
HER FEELING THAT SHE KNOWS
WHAT TO DO FOR HERSELF,
AND IT WOULD BE A TREMENDOUS
GIFT IF YOU COULD DO THAT.
THANK YOU.
OKAY.
Brazelton: FOR TAPES
AND TRANSCRIPTS, CALL...
OR LOG ON AT...
,
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
I HOPE YOU'VE
LEARNED A BIT MORE
ABOUT HOW YOUR CHILD LEARNS.
SELF-ESTEEM COMES FIRST.
I CAN TELL IF A CHILD
IS GOING TO SUCCEED
BY AS EARLY AS
EIGHT MONTHS OR SO.
A SUCCESSFUL BABY WILL
DO A TASK YOU GIVE HIM
LIKE BANGING
TWO BLOCKS TOGETHER.
LOOK UP AT YOU AND SAY
"AREN'T I GREAT?"
THAT CHILD EXPECTS TO SUCCEED.
WE WANT TO SEE THAT LOOK
IN THE FACE OF ALL
OF OUR CHILDREN.
AS PARENTS,
WE CAN HELP THEM.
Brazelton: JUST ASK
THE KIDS AT LANDMARK.
( choir singing )
Broudo: EACH YEAR
WE GRADUATE BETWEEN
60 AND 75 STUDENTS
AND THERE ARE ALWAYS
OVER A THOUSAND PEOPLE THERE.
EVERYBODY'S
SCREAMING AND YELLING
AND IT'S ALL THE AUNTS
AND UNCLES AND COUSINS
AND GRANDPARENTS, BECAUSE
THEY WERE PART OF THE PROCESS.
THE PARENTS HAVE BEEN
ADVOCATES FOR THESE STUDENTS
AND EVERYBODY IN THE FAMILY
KNOWS THE STORY
AND THERE THEY ARE,
BOUNCING ACROSS THAT STAGE
AND EVERYBODY IS JUST
FILLED WITH LIFE
AND THEY CAN ALL SEE
A DIFFERENT FUTURE
FOR THIS YOUNG PERSON
THAN THEY COULD SEE
A FEW YEARS PRIOR TO THAT.
CONGRATULATIONS.
( audience cheering )
( theme music playing )